Dececting drones

- Rader
- Thermal cameras
	They are shit
	Dont know why u thought this would be good
- RF detecting
- Layered drone detection approach
	Combinds the three technology stated above




RFID chips can send out the following information
- Drone make
- Model
- Serieal number
- Current location
- Location of pilot
Can use RF sensors to capture this formation
This can not be used to track autonomius drones

Kilde til ting over her: https://www.droneblog.com/detect-a-drone/




Airsight uses something called a Pan-Tilt-Zoom (PTZ) camera to get visual tracking of the drone this is used combined with a RF sensors to know the location of the drone and them recoard them. 
How many decetion systems are needed?
	It depends on your facility and detection needs. One factor is the amount of potential signal interference caused by the layout and environment. If you are surrounded by tall
	buildings, you might need multiple sensors to achieve the level of detection you need. Our airspace security experts conduct a thorough walk-through and site survey of your facility 	and suggest the best Remote ID, RF, Radar, and Visual configurations to match your needs and budget.
What facility needs drone protraction
	We are seeing different types of organizations installing drone detection. Since drones can collide with planes, airports need drone detection to keep track of drones around the 	runway. Because drones can carry payloads, organizations like stadiums, oil & gas plants, critical infrastructure, and prisons also need detection technology. Law enforcement, 	corporations, and live event organizers also deploy these solutions to tackle aerial threats.
https://www.airsight.com/en-us/knowledge-hub/drone-detection



Airport drone detecting
	RF and Video analytics
https://www.dronetechnology.eu/performance/how-to-detect-drones-essential-tools-and-tips-for-drone-detection/ (Ikke super god kilde, blog uden kilder)



RFID (Radio frequency identicication) sensors
	Not relavant for this project
https://www.rfpage.com/components-of-rfid-technology-and-applications/







Primary dection methods
	Rader
		Interference from enviomental obsticals (Need to be high up)
	RF analysis
		Problems with interference
		Hard to pin point exact location of UAV
	Optoelectronic
		Cameres
		Depend on the weather and envimental factors
		Shorter range then rader
	Acoustic 
		Effective in short range
		Hindred by background noise
	Many solution combine these solutions


The classcification of a drone can be made by looking at... (Classyfing the intent of the drone)
	the emiited frequency
	Radar cross section
	Doppler effect and signatur
	Radar spectrogram
Kilde : https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1874548225000058



Fordele og ulemper ved for forskellige diction methods
The micro doppler effect can show the differenc between birds and small drones. In this paper it was done with the K band and a millimeter wave radar
Kilde: https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC10780901/
	



